README.md, before:

# PARSEC - Protocol for Asynchronous, Reliable, Secure and Efficient Consensus

|Crate|Documentation|Linux/OS X|Windows|Issues|
|:---:|:-----------:|:--------:|:-----:|:----:|
|[![](http://meritbadge.herokuapp.com/parsec)](https://crates.io/crates/parsec)|[![Documentation](https://docs.rs/parsec/badge.svg)](https://docs.rs/parsec)|[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/maidsafe/parsec.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/maidsafe/parsec)|[![Build status](https://ci.appveyor.com/api/projects/status/1wmc7pj8fx77lywy/branch/master?svg=true)](https://ci.appveyor.com/project/MaidSafe-QA/parsec/branch/master)|[![Stories in Ready](https://badge.waffle.io/maidsafe/parsec.png?label=ready&title=Ready)](https://waffle.io/maidsafe/parsec)|

| [MaidSafe website](https://maidsafe.net) | [SAFE Dev Forum](https://forum.safedev.org) | [SAFE Network Forum](https://safenetforum.org) |
|:----------------------------------------:|:-------------------------------------------:|:----------------------------------------------:|

There is a basic example available in the examples folder.  This allows you to simulate a network of peers each running the Parsec protocol to reach consensus on a number of random network events.  There is also the ability to dump each peer's gossip graph in dot format to a file in your system temp dir.  This can be enabled via the feature `dump-graphs`.  So, e.g. to run the example for a network of five peers and ten network events:

```
cargo run --example=basic --features=dump-graphs -- --peers=5 --events=10
```

To generate SVG graphs from the resulting dot files:

```
dot -Tsvg *.dot -O
```

## Implementation status:

### Features already implemented

- [x] Initial implementation of PARSEC
    - Demonstrates working consensus in a static network of peers
- [x] Integration tests
    - Simple tests show consensus being reached in a network of small size, with all nodes simulated in a single thread
    - Data is randomly generated to allow for soak testing
    - Soak testing has been performed for tens of thousands of run without errors
- [x] Generation of graphs
    - With the feature: `dump-graphs`, a dot representation of all network communications is output
    - The graphs are snapshots at the time each consensus decision is taken (one graph per node per consensus decision)
    - The graphs are annotated with details of the PARSEC protocol that explain how consensus was ultimately reached
    - An image (for instance .svg) can be obtained from the dot representation using dot
- [x] Reproducibility
    - In case of test failure, a seed is output. That seed can be used to reproduce the failing scenario, which helps investigate the potential issue
- [x] Simple example
    - A simple example was created to allow testing various scenarios
    - The number of peers, number of votes etc. can be configured by command line arguments
- [x] Initial documentation
    - Early documentation of the API is available [here](https://docs.rs/parsec/0.5.0/parsec/index.html)

### Upcoming features

- [ ] Foolproof handling of malice
    - Handle forks (one node sends more than one event with the same `self_parent`)
    - Double voting (one node votes more than once for the same network event)
    - Detection of malicious behaviour, resulting in consensus on excluding the offending peer
- [ ] Performance
    - Benchmark and optimise the code
    - Perform measurements of Transactions Per Second in simulated network
        - Use setup that can be compared with competing consensus protocols
- [ ] Extensive tests
    - Implement extensive tests that simulate adversarial scenarios to prove robustness outside of the "happy path"
- [ ] Extensive documentation
    - Documentation will be made comprehensive
- [ ] Dynamic network membership

## License

Licensed under the General Public License (GPL), version 3 ([LICENSE](LICENSE) http://www.gnu.org/licenses/gpl-3.0.en.html).

### Linking exception

Parsec is licensed under GPLv3 with linking exception. This means you can link to and use the library from any program, proprietary or open source; paid or gratis. However, if you modify parsec, you must distribute the source to your modified version under the terms of the GPLv3.

See the [LICENSE](LICENSE) file for more details.

Commit message:

doc/parsec: write short getting started guide
We want for someone landing on the repo to be able to generate graphs
and get a feel for how PARSEC works.
This small tutorial should be enough to get the interested explorer
started.

README.md, after:

# PARSEC - Protocol for Asynchronous, Reliable, Secure and Efficient Consensus

|Crate|Documentation|Linux/OS X|Windows|Issues|
|:---:|:-----------:|:--------:|:-----:|:----:|
|[![](http://meritbadge.herokuapp.com/parsec)](https://crates.io/crates/parsec)|[![Documentation](https://docs.rs/parsec/badge.svg)](https://docs.rs/parsec)|[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/maidsafe/parsec.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/maidsafe/parsec)|[![Build status](https://ci.appveyor.com/api/projects/status/1wmc7pj8fx77lywy/branch/master?svg=true)](https://ci.appveyor.com/project/MaidSafe-QA/parsec/branch/master)|[![Stories in Ready](https://badge.waffle.io/maidsafe/parsec.png?label=ready&title=Ready)](https://waffle.io/maidsafe/parsec)|

| [MaidSafe website](https://maidsafe.net) | [SAFE Dev Forum](https://forum.safedev.org) | [SAFE Network Forum](https://safenetforum.org) |
|:----------------------------------------:|:-------------------------------------------:|:----------------------------------------------:|

## Overview

There is a basic example available in the examples folder.  This allows you to simulate a network of peers each running the Parsec protocol to reach consensus on a number of random network events.  There is also the ability to dump each peer's gossip graph in dot format to a file in your system temp dir.  This can be enabled via the feature `dump-graphs`.  So, e.g. to run the example for a network of five peers and ten network events:

```
cargo run --example=basic --features=dump-graphs -- --peers=5 --events=10
```

To generate SVG graphs from the resulting dot files:

```
dot -Tsvg *.dot -O
```

## Detailed tutorial

If the instructions in the overview are a bit sparse for your taste, please refer to the [tutorial](tutorial.md) for a step-by-step guide.

## Implementation status:

### Features already implemented

- [x] Initial implementation of PARSEC
    - Demonstrates working consensus in a static network of peers
- [x] Integration tests
    - Simple tests show consensus being reached in a network of small size, with all nodes simulated in a single thread
    - Data is randomly generated to allow for soak testing
    - Soak testing has been performed for tens of thousands of run without errors
- [x] Generation of graphs
    - With the feature: `dump-graphs`, a dot representation of all network communications is output
    - The graphs are snapshots at the time each consensus decision is taken (one graph per node per consensus decision)
    - The graphs are annotated with details of the PARSEC protocol that explain how consensus was ultimately reached
    - An image (for instance .svg) can be obtained from the dot representation using dot
- [x] Reproducibility
    - In case of test failure, a seed is output. That seed can be used to reproduce the failing scenario, which helps investigate the potential issue
- [x] Simple example
    - A simple example was created to allow testing various scenarios
    - The number of peers, number of votes etc. can be configured by command line arguments
- [x] Initial documentation
    - Early documentation of the API is available [here](https://docs.rs/parsec/0.5.0/parsec/index.html)

### Upcoming features

- [ ] Foolproof handling of malice
    - Handle forks (one node sends more than one event with the same `self_parent`)
    - Double voting (one node votes more than once for the same network event)
    - Detection of malicious behaviour, resulting in consensus on excluding the offending peer
- [ ] Performance
    - Benchmark and optimise the code
    - Perform measurements of Transactions Per Second in simulated network
        - Use setup that can be compared with competing consensus protocols
- [ ] Extensive tests
    - Implement extensive tests that simulate adversarial scenarios to prove robustness outside of the "happy path"
- [ ] Extensive documentation
    - Documentation will be made comprehensive
- [ ] Dynamic network membership

## License

Licensed under the General Public License (GPL), version 3 ([LICENSE](LICENSE) http://www.gnu.org/licenses/gpl-3.0.en.html).

### Linking exception

Parsec is licensed under GPLv3 with linking exception. This means you can link to and use the library from any program, proprietary or open source; paid or gratis. However, if you modify parsec, you must distribute the source to your modified version under the terms of the GPLv3.

See the [LICENSE](LICENSE) file for more details.
